---
title: "[PLoS One] Funtional dynamics of bacterial species in the mouse gut microbiome revealed by metagenomics and metatranscriptomic analyses"
author: Johin
date: 2020-01-24 00:00:00 +0900
categories: [Publications, Original Research]
tags: [publications, microbiome, metagenomics]
mermaid: true
---


| Journal  | Date      | IF | Authorship   | doi                      |
|:---------|:----------|---:|:-------------|:----------------------|
| PLoS One | Jan, 2020 | 2.776 | First Author | <https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0227886> |

# Funtional dynamics of bacterial species in the mouse gut microbiome revealed by metagenomics and metatranscriptomic analyses  
Youn Wook Chung, ***Ho-Jin Gwak***, Sungmin Moon, Mina Rho, Ji-Hwan Ryu

## Abstract

**Background**  
Microbial communities of the mouse gut have been extensively studied; however, their functionalroles and regulation are yet to be elucidated. Metagenomic and metatranscriptomicanalyses may allow us a comprehensive profiling of bacterial composition and functions ofthe complex gut microbiota. The present study aimed to investigate the active functions ofthe microbial communities in the murine cecum by analyzing both metagenomic and metatranscriptomicdata on specific bacterial species within the microbial communities, in additionto the whole microbiome.  

**Results**  
Bacterial composition of the healthy mouse gut microbiome was profiled using the followingthree different approaches: 16S rRNA-based profiling based on amplicon and shotgunsequencing data, and genome-based profiling based on shotgun sequencing data. Consistently,Bacteroidetes, Firmicutes, and Deferribacteres emerged as the major phyla. Basedon NCBI taxonomy, Muribaculaceae, Lachnospiraceae, and Deferribacteraceae were thepredominant families identified in each phylum. The genes for carbohydrate metabolismwere upregulated in Muribaculaceae, while genes for cofactors and vitamin metabolism andamino acid metabolism were upregulated in Deferribacteraceae. The genes for translationwere commonly enhanced in all three families. Notably, combined analysis of metagenomicand metatranscriptomic sequencing data revealed that the functions of translation andmetabolism were largely upregulated in all three families in the mouse gut environment. Theratio of the genes in the metagenome and their expression in the metatranscriptome indicated higher expression of carbohydrate metabolism in Muribaculum, Duncaniella, andMucispirillum.  

**Conclusions**  
We demonstrated a fundamental methodology for linking genomic and transcriptomic datasetsto examine functional activities of specific bacterial species in a complicated microbialenvironment. We investigated the normal flora of the mouse gut using three differentapproaches and identified Muribaculaceae, Lachnospiraceae, and Deferribacteraceae asthe predominant families. The functional distribution of these families was reflected in theentire microbiome. By comparing the metagenomic and metatranscriptomic data, we foundthat the expression rates differed for different functional categories in the mouse gut environment.Application of these methods to track microbial transcription in individuals overtime, or before and after administration of a specific stimulus will significantly facilitate futuredevelopment of diagnostics and treatments.
