---
title: "[The Laryngoscope] Antibiotic Sensitivity and Nasal Microbiome in Patients with Acute Bacterial Rhinosinusitis"
author: Johin
date: 2023-08-14 00:00:00 +0900
categories: [Publications, Original Research]
tags: [publications, microbiome, metagenomics]
mermaid: true
---


| Journal  | Date      | IF | Authorship   | doi                      |
|:---------|:----------|---:|:-------------|:----------------------|
| The Laryngoscope | Aug, 2023 | 2.97 | First Author | <https://doi.org/10.1002/lary.30950> |

# Antibiotic Sensitivity and Nasal Microbiome in Patients with Acute Bacterial Rhinosinusitis  
***Ho-Jin Gwak***, Hyeon A Lee, Jae Yeong Jeong, Yangsoon Lee, Mina Rho, Seok Hyun Cho

## Abstract

**Objectives**  
Acute rhinosinusitis (ARS) is a common upper respiratory tract infection that is mostly of viral origin. However, little is known about the nasal microbiome profile at presentation and the changes caused by antibiotics in acute bacterial rhinosinusitis (ABRS).

**Methods**  
This was a prospective single-center study. Overall, 43 ARS patients were screened and were assessed with the symptom questionnaires, nasal endoscopy, and Water's view. Five healthy subjects were recruited as controls. Middle meatal mucus samples were obtained using a cotton swab (for bacterial culture and antimicrobial susceptibility testing) and the suction technique (for 16S rRNA sequencing). After 1 week of antibiotic use (amoxicillin with clavulanic acid), we enrolled 13 patients with ABRS with positive isolates and middle meatal samples for 16S rRNA sequencing were obtained again.

**Results**  
Overall, we demonstrated a significantly lower abundance of the Lactobacillaceae family in ABRS patients than in healthy controls. Resistant ABRS had different characteristics of middle meatal microbiomes when compared to sensitive ABRS as follows: (1) lower proportion of lactic acid bacteria, (2) increased pathogens such as Rhodococcus sp., Massila sp., Acinetobacter sp., and H. influenza, and (3) increased beta diversity. However, no remarkable changes were observed in the middle meatal microbiome after antibiotic use.

**Conclusion**  
We showed the roles of Lactobacillaceae in ABRS, and Acinetobacter and Massilia in case of amoxicillin resistance.